Extending the behavior of OpenSim primarily involves adding code to the
simulator itself through in-world scripts written in LSL. To enable a
broader set of languages and applications, we built Dispatcher, a
language-independent API for external scripting of OpenSim
regions. Using Dispatcher, scripts can be written in any language that
provides a JSON messaging interface; the package comes with libraries
for Perl and Python. The Dispatcher API supports scene update
operations, asset manipulation, inventory and avatar appearance changes,
and handling of in-world events. 

Dispatcher defines a message-based, layered interface for interacting
with an OpenSim region. There are three layers: the transport layer, the
presentation layer and the messaging layer. 

The transport layer facilitates synchronous and asynchronous
communication with OpenSim through HTTP over TCP or UDP connections. It
includes facilities for managing end points for callbacks that simplify,
for example, the implementation of event handlers.

All dispatcher messages JSON blobs. The presentation layer provides two
encodings, a standard text-based JSON encoding and a binary BSON
encoding. Typically, the text encoding is easier to build and debug. The
binary encoding is often more compact and substantially faster to
decode. For applications controlling real-time behaviors of objects, the
binary encoding is a good choice.

The messaging layer implements a set of messages that enable interaction
with an OpenSim scene. The current implementation provides messages for
managing assets, avatars, communication, object properties including
object dynamics (position, velocity, acceleration), and some events.

Every message contains fields for validating the request. These include
the scene where the message is handled, the message domain (e.g. avatar
messages or object messages), a capability used to verify that
permission has been granted to process the message, and a flag to
indicate whether the message should be processed synchronously or
asynchronously. 

The dispatcher module defines three message domains (other domains are
defined in the companion "remote control" package). These are
authentication messages, informational messages, and endpoint messages. 

Informational messages provide self-inspection for a particular
dispatcher instance. 

* InfoRequest -- request information about the dispatcher instance
  including connection information, a list of scenes, and a list of
  messages supported by the dispatcher.

* MessageFormatRequest -- request information about the structure of a
  particular message; the response is an instance of the message with its
  default values.

EndPoint messages provide a means for creating a representation in the
dispatcher instance of an endpoint to which the dispatcher can send
asynchronous responses to the client. It is principally used for
callbacks associated with events.

* CreateEndPointRequest -- create an endpoint for communication via UDP,
  host and port must be provided along with a lifespan. The lifespan
  provides an estimate for how long the information will be cached in the
  dispatcher before it is removed. The dispatcher can define a maximum
  lifespan for endpoints.

* RenewEndPointRequest -- extend the lifespan of the endpoint. This is
  really a "keep alive" message for the endpoint; its the client's way of
  telling the dispatcher that it is still listening on the port.

* CloseEndPointRequest -- this message lets the dispatcher know that the
  endpoint is no longer necessary and any resources associated with it can
  be reclaimed. Removing the endpoint also removes all callbacks
  associated with it.

Authentication messages